<div class="wiki-content"> <h3> about the ark_robot_configurations tool: </h3> <p> This tool allows you to easily set 
up the Clearpath Robotics' ARK for use with your robot. This tool uses a ROS Message sent over the network to the ARK 
to configure its autonomous navigation settings. The rest of the readme will be an instructional tutorial on how to 
make your robot compatible.</p> <h3>Making your robot compatible with the Clearpath Robotics ARK (Autonomy Research 
Kit) </h3> <ol> <li>(Optional). Fork this repository for making a pull request later with your changes</li> <li>Remap 
your robot topics</li> <li>Determining your variables</li> <li>Configuring the ARK via a ROS message</li> 
<li>(Optional) Sharing your robot configuration</li> <li>Done! Check out our knowledge base for more information on 
how to utilize the ARK, the ARK API, and how to purchase an ARK.</li> </ol> <h3>Remapping your robot topics</h3> <p> 
If you are using a Clearpath Robotics' robot, the remap topics will be available in the launch/ directory of this 
repository and should be installed and configured by default. However, if you are using a custom robot, this guide 
will show you what needs to be remapped. </p> <p> Here is an example launch file which remaps a Clearpath Robotics' 
Husky to make it compatible with the ARK </p> <pre> &lt;launch&gt;
  &lt;node pkg="topic_tools" type="relay" name="raw_odom_relay" args="husky_velocity_controller/odom 
/platform_control/odom" /&gt;
  &lt;node pkg="topic_tools" type="relay" name="raw_cmd_vel_relay" args="cmd_vel /platform_control/cmd_vel" /&gt; 
&lt;launch&gt;
 </pre>
 
 <p> The autonomy kit looks for the topics /platform_control/odom and /platform_control/cmd_vel to be piped across to 
the box. Therefore your robot/client machine must provide those topics with the data types nav_msgs/Odometry and 
geometry_msgs/Twist respectively </p>
 
 <p> You should take the above launch file and change the topic argument it is looking for. For the Husky, it 
provides husky_velocity_controller/odom and in your robot's case, it will be, for example, "your_custom_robot/odom" 
</p>
 
 <h3>Determining your variables</h3> <h3>Configuring the ARK via a ROS message</h3> <p>Send a message to: 
/ark_config_settings_call. Note you can press tab to autocomplete the fields, or copy and paste</p> <pre>rostopic pub 
/ark_bridge/ark_config_settings_call ark_bridge/ArkConfigSettingsCall "{max_fwd_velocity: 0.0, max_rev_velocity: 0.0, 
min_fwd_velocity: 0.0, max_accel: 0.0,
  max_decel: 0.0, max_ang_velocity: 0.0, max_ang_accel: 0.0, max_lateral_accel: 0.0,
  vehicle_length: 0.0, vehicle_width: 0.0, stopping_distance_1M: 0.0, lidar_spacing: 0.0,
  laser_fov: 0.0, vehicle_gear: 0, curve_type: 0, goal_threshold: 0.0, orientation_corr_threshold: 0.0,
  mpc_horizon: 0.0, min_lookahead: 0.0, max_lookahead: 0.0, horizon_percent_change: 0.0,
  lookahead_smoother: 0.0, lookahead_factor: 0.0, curvature_slowdown: 0.0}" </pre> <h3>Sharing your robot 
configuration</h3> <p>To make your robot configuration available for other users, put it in a python file located in 
the src/ directory templated as so:</p> <pre>#!/usr/bin/env python from ark_bridge.msg import 
ArkConfigSettingsResponse, ArkConfigSettingsCall import time import rospy def response_callback(data):
  global started
  if started:
    print data.information
    rospy.signal_shutdown("Ark Configured") def setupRidgeback():
    global started
    started = False
    print "Starting..."
    rospy.init_node("ridgeback_configurator")
    rospy.Subscriber("/ark_bridge/ark_config_settings_response", ArkConfigSettingsResponse, response_callback)
    time.sleep(0.3)
    started = True
    print "Configuring Ark for Ridgeback"
    pub = rospy.Publisher("/ark_bridge/ark_config_settings_call", ArkConfigSettingsCall, latch=True, queue_size=1)
    settingsMsg = ArkConfigSettingsCall()
    settingsMsg.max_fwd_velocity = 1.0 #[m/s]
    settingsMsg.max_rev_velocity = 1.0 #[m/s]
    settingsMsg.min_fwd_velocity = 0.05 #[m/s]
    settingsMsg.max_accel = 0.3 #[m/s^2]
    settingsMsg.max_decel = -0.3 #[m/s^2]
    settingsMsg.max_ang_velocity = 1.0 #[rad/s]
    settingsMsg.max_ang_accel = 0.3 #[rad/s^2]
    settingsMsg.max_lateral_accel = 0.3 #[m/s^2] Max lateral accel during curves. Affects velocity.
    settingsMsg.vehicle_length = 0.960 #[m]
    settingsMsg.vehicle_width = 0.800 #[m]
    settingsMsg.stopping_distance_1M = 0.40	#[m] - Stopping distance when traveling 1m/s
    settingsMsg.lidar_spacing = 0.8254 #[m] - spacing between the lidar
    settingsMsg.laser_fov = 270.0 #[deg]
    settingsMsg.vehicle_gear = 1 #0 - Mixed, 1 - Forward Only, 2 - Backward only.
    settingsMsg.curve_type = 1 #0 - Linear, 1 - Curves.
    settingsMsg.goal_threshold = 0.15 #[m] - How close to the goal for "success"
    settingsMsg.orientation_corr_threshold = 0.05	#[rad] - How close to goal orientation for "success"
    settingsMsg.mpc_horizon = 3.0 #The predicition horizon [s].
    settingsMsg.min_lookahead = 2.0 #Minimum distance [in path parameter] ahead of the robot to do tracking and 
collision checks.
    settingsMsg.max_lookahead = 3.0 #Maximum distance [in path parameter] ahead of the robot to do tracking and 
collision checks.
    settingsMsg.horizon_percent_change = 0.06 #Percentage change when shortening the horizon (how quickly do we want 
to speed up after a curve slowdown).
    settingsMsg.lookahead_smoother = 0.4 #Factor between 0 and 1 that determines the smoothness of the change in 
lookahead distance: 0 means only maximum velocity is used to determine the horizon (can be jumpy but speeds up the 
robot faster); 1 means only averaged planned velocity is used to determine the horizon (smoother but speeds up the 
robot slowly)
    settingsMsg.lookahead_factor = 1.45 #How aggressively do we want to increase the lookahead from min_lookahead to 
max_lookahead.
    settingsMsg.curvature_slowdown = 0.6 #Threshold [rad] on path curvature above which to slow down the robot.
    pub.publish(settingsMsg)
    rospy.spin()
    print "Done" if __name__ == "__main__":
    setupRidgeback() </pre> <h3> ROS Message Definition: </h3> <table>
  <tr>
    <th>ArkConfigSettingsCall.msg</th>
    <th></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>double max_fwd_velocity</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double max_rev_velocity</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double min_fwd_velocity</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double max_accel</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double max_decel</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double max_ang_velocity</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double max_ang_accel</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double max_lateral_accel</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double vehicle_length</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double vehicle_width</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double stopping_distance_1M</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>double lidar_spacing</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double laser_fov</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>int8_t vehicle_gear</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>int8_t curve_type</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double goal_threshold</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double orientation_corr_threshold</td>
   
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double mpc_horizon</td>
    
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double min_lookahead</td>
  
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double max_lookahead</td>
   
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double horizon_percent_change</td>
   
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double lookahead_smoother</td>
   
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double lookahead_factor</td>
   
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>double curvature_slowdown</td>
  
  </tr> </table> <h3> Variable Meanings and Effects </h3> <table> <tbody> <tr> <th>Setting</th> <th>Info</th></tr> 
<tr> <td>max_fwd_velocity</td> <td>[m/s]</td></tr> <tr> <td>max_rev_velocity</td> <td>[m/s]</td></tr> <tr> 
<td>min_fwd_velocity</td> <td>[m/s]</td></tr> <tr> <td>max_accel</td> <td>[m/s^2]</td></tr> <tr> <td>max_decel</td> 
<td>[m/s^2]</td></tr> <tr> <td>max_ang_velocity</td> <td>[rad/s]</td></tr> <tr> <td>max_ang_accel</td> 
<td>[rad/s^2]</td></tr> <tr> <td>max_lateral_accel</td> <td>[m/s^2] Max lateral accel during curves. Affects 
velocity.</td></tr> <tr> <td>vehicle_length</td> <td>[m]</td></tr> <tr> <td>vehicle_width</td> <td>[m]</td></tr> <tr> 
<td>stopping_distance_1M</td> <td>[m] - Stopping distance when traveling 1m/s</td></tr> <tr> <td>lidar_spacing</td> 
<td>[m] - spacing between the lidar</td></tr> <tr> <td>laser_fov</td> <td>[deg]</td></tr> <tr> <td>vehicle_gear</td> 
<td>0 &ndash; Mixed, 1 - Forward Only, 2 - Backward only.</td></tr> <tr> <td>curve_type</td> <td>0 &ndash; Linear, 1 
&ndash; Curves.</td></tr> <tr> <td>goal_threshold</td> <td>[m] - How close to the goal for 
&quot;success&quot;</td></tr> <tr> <td>orientation_corr_threshold</td> <td>[rad] - How close to goal orientation for 
&quot;success&quot;</td></tr> <tr> <td>mpc_horizon</td> <td>The predicition horizon [s].</td></tr> <tr> 
<td>min_lookahead</td> <td>Minimum distance [in path parameter] ahead of the robot to do tracking and collision 
checks.</td></tr> <tr> <td>max_lookahead</td> <td>Maximum distance [in path parameter] ahead of the robot to do 
tracking and collision checks.</td></tr> <tr> <td>horizon_percent_change</td> <td>Percentage change when shortening 
the horizon (how quickly do we want to speed up after a curve slowdown).</td></tr> <tr> <td>lookahead_smoother</td> 
<td> <p>Factor between 0 and 1 that determines the smoothness of the change in lookahead distance: 0 means only 
maximum velocity is used to determine the horizon (can be jumpy but but speeds up the robot faster); 1 means only 
averaged planned velocity is used to determine the horizon (smoother but speeds up the robot slowly)</p></td></tr> 
<tr> <td>lookahead_factor</td> <td>How aggressively do we want to increase the lookahead from min_lookahead to 
max_lookahead.</td></tr> <tr> <td>curvature_slowdown</td> <td>Threshold [rad] on path curvature above which to slow 
down the robot.</td></tr></tbody></table> <h3>Verifying it was set:</h3> <p>Status and information response from: 
/ark_config_settings_response</p></div>
